Yeah, let's keep moving, so
now we'll work on the onEnd.
So the onEnd is gonna be a handler for
when a song ends, what do you wanna do?
We'll typically in a music
player if a song ends,
I wanted to go to the next
song automatically.
So we have to handle that so I'm gonna say
OnEnd and that's gonna be a function and
what I wanna do here is basically we
have to check for repeat in here.
So typically, in the music player, if you
hit Next, it does account for shuffle,
but it doesn't usually account for repeat.
If I hit Next when repeat is on,
does it just play the same song, or
does it go to the next song and
then repeat that song?
I think they'd goes to the next song it
repeats the next song, maybe you would,
if you hit next but repeat is on I think
you'd expected it to go to the next song
why else would you hit next?
So that's why we don't account for
repeat on next but we will account for
repeat on song end.
So therefore it just loops back and plays
that song again, so we'll do that and
what we'll say is, we'll say if and
we're keeping track of the repeat state so
this should work so
we'll say if repeat, is activated.
What we'll do is we basically
have to set the seek manually,
so we have to tell react holler to seek
back to zero so reset the song basically.
And we can do that using our sound ref, so
we can say sound ref being at the current
which means give me the current
value of this reference.
This will be the react instance or direct
Howler instance and that has a method on
it called seek and we can give it a number
of zero so just saying seek back to zero
And that's all if the repeat is activated,
if repeat is not activated,
then just go to next song, so
call the next song function.
We're also keeping track of
seek ourself in our state, and
we're gonna use that
to move the animation.
So this is setting the react hours,
so the actual song to restart, but
to update the UI to restart we also
have to keep track of our seek and
let's say setSeek to zero as well.
So we're gonna use that seat state to keep
track of the UI, but the second one is to
actually move the song back to zero,
so two different things.
Okay, the other one we wanna take
care of is the onLoad event, so
when a song loads up.
We need to grab the duration from it and
set the duration, so
we can actually show it in
the player at the bottom right.
So we'll say const onLoad
that's gonna equals
something here and
we're just gonna say const song,
duration that's gonna equals
the soundRef.current.seek.
However, has a method on it
called duration, if you call it,
it'll give you back the current duration
of the song that just loaded up.
So we'll get that duration back, and
then we'll just say set duration
to whatever the song duration was.
That way we can update the duration on
the bottom right of the Seek bar, again,
all the songs have durations
now saved in a database, but
they're like, in a different format.
So this is, I'm just grabbing the state
from whatever react holler says,
that way, it's guaranteed to be the same,
I don't want any like millisecond
differences or second differences.
So I'm just like whatever that thing says
the duration is, that's what it is and
hopefully the database matches with that,
so.
Okay, any questions so far on some
of these callbacks that we did?
We just did a bunch of callbacks here.
Okay so now we want to hook
these up into the DOM or
actually there's one more we wanna do.
We wanna handle what happens when you do
the seeking, so if you click the seek bar,
if you drag the seek bar,
we wanna do some stuff there.
So we'll say const onSeek we wanna do
that that's going to take an event and
we wanna just set the seek value to,
We got a parse float because
we're doing decimals on the seek value
because they step by point one every time.
So we got to parse float, not parse
int and the range components spits out
an array of values,
because we had like a minimum and maximum.
So it'll spit back an array of values for
some reason and
not just one value, I know.
So we have to do is just get E and
get the first value out of there.
That's only unique to this range component
from chakra if you use like the range
component from html5,
it just spits out one value,
it doesn't spit out an array of values.
But this one does have something
to do with the min and the max and
the fact that I get multiple thumbs and
things like that.
So we got that, so
that's gonna update the visual UI seeking,
but then now we have to also update
the song to seek to it as well.
And the way we do that is using
the sound ref dot current,
it also has a seek method
that we seen before.
And you can pass whatever you want,
we set it to 0 up here to reset the song,
he's got to pass it to whatever this
value is to seek to that value.
Cool, okay, so
now let's attach these handlers to
all the elements that
need to they need them.
So for react taller we're going
to add the onLoad and the onEnd,
so we'll say onLoad we're going
to say they on load like that and
then onEnd we're gonna do that on and
like that
And then for the other ones that we have,
what do we have,
we had onSeek, we had next song and
previous song.
And I think those are the only two
that we need so, the next song and
previous song are exactly where
you think they would go so
previous song is gonna go here on click,
we're gonna say previous song.
Then the next song is gonna go exactly
where you think it's gonna go on
the next button.
So we'll say on click next song.
And then the last one is gonna be for the
seeking so we got to handle the onSeek.
The way we're going to do that is
if we go down to the rain slider,
the main one here,
we're going to do a couple things.
First, we need to give it a max value,
so it knows how big it should be, so
we're gonna say max.
And then here's where we're gonna use
the duration that we've been setting.
So we're gonna say, hey,
if there is a duration,
then we're gonna say, duration.toFixed.
And we're gonna say, 2.
This just is gonna just
fix the decimal places, so
we get the right amount of
decimal places for this number.
So it looks like the way it's supposed
to look, if not then just zero,
we don't have anything yet.
And this thing is freaking out
because no duplicate prompts,
I already have one there and
let me get rid of, am I there we go?
Why else are you freaking out?
Okay, I don't know what that type
varies but it's totally fine.
And then we need to do an onChange.
So onChange we'll do the onSeek,
so we'll say onSeek like that,
that'll be for the onChange
And this will handle when someone
clicks the sick bar and it tracks.
And then what we wanna do now is we wanna
handle when someone is dragging it, so
we got to keep track of if someone
is currently seeking or not.
And those gonna be two call backs for that
before we get there we'll add the value
of whatever it currently is, and
that's just gonna be an array with seek.
The reason I'm putting an array is because
that's literally what range slider wants.
It wants an array because this range
slider can accept multiple values, and I
guess they just didn't feel like figuring
out if you pass in a single value or not.
Which is easy for them to do, so they just
like you always got to pass an array no
matter what, so we have to pass
an array with the current seek value.
And the next thing we got to do is,
again, we need to listen for
when someone is currently seeking as
they're dragging the thumb left and right.
Because we're gonna do certain things when
that's true, so there's two events for
that, we'll say onChange start, Like this,
and I'm gonna copy that and
there's another onChange end.
So we basically like I said, we're just
going to keep track of whether you
are seeking or not, we don't have
any state for that right now.
So we got to come back up here and
make a new states and
that's just going to be called,
is seeking will say is seeking and
set is seeking And they'll start to false.
Okay, so now that we have that,
we can go back down, and
on chain start, all we have to do
is just say set is seeking is true.
Cuz you're starting to do
the change onChange and
we can say set seeking is false,
you are done seeking.
Okay, we got all of that hooked up,
there's still some more work to do with,
some things we need to handle, but so
far everything seems to be working.
The last thing we wanna do, is let's see,
we wanna make sure that we're playing
the right song,
actually I think we're good there, so.
>> Can we control the volume
levels also with this?
>> Yeah, you can a hundred percent control
the volume levels of, with holler,
there's a prompt that you can pass in
that allows you to control the volume.
So for the UI that we have, there is a
volume on the bottom right, about a volume
slider, you can literally control that
with react collar, so that's how it works.
>> With this player be a good
candidate for X state?
>> Put this player be a good candidate for
X state, so
if you don't know what x state is,
X state is a finite state machine
that turns your UI logic into
a state tree kind of like a router.
Yeah, I think it would, I mean, you would
have to build a really nice interpreter,
well I think X date has
a really good interpreter now.
Because you have to tie in react Aller to
it some lot somehow, but once you figure
that out you had a really good interpreter
yeah I think X date will be a great one.
Because you can only be in a certain
state at a time, so I mean,
I think x state is great for all UI.
So yeah, totally,
this is a great candidate,
I think a lot of people don't
like using X state though,
because of all the setup that you
have to do, but I'm a big fan of it.
I rather do the setup on X state and
have like a predictable guaranteed UI
that's like bug free
versus not setting it up.
And just being like going through
all these conditionals and
if statements inside of
JSX yeah rather not.
So, yeah,
I think it's a great candidate for state.
So let's see where we are now,
we're gonna try to click a button.
I click the button, I can see that the
seek, like resettled, like some something
happened here, it's not quite there yet
the duration thing still isn't there.
So we need to go back, we need to make
sure that the seek is being uploaded
every single tick, so for nice, smooth
animation, so we got to figure that out.
We need to go back and fix this duration
that's not showing the right thing.
Once we fix that, we can test whether or
not the repeat is working and
things like that onEnd.
Because right now like, you can see
the seek is like getting there but
it's not moving, so we don't actually
know where the song is, but.
[MUSIC]
If you listen right quick,
I'm gonna just play my a little bit,
when I seek,
you can hear it actually seeking, so
it does seek from the songs perspective,
but the UI is not being updated.
So we need to update the UI so
that that bar actually moves in and
then we need to fix this description or
here, this hard coded thing.
Okay, and let's do that.
So to fix that duration,
let's go down to where that actually is,
I believe it's at the bottom here,
I just have a hard coded number.
Instead, what we're gonna do is we're
gonna use one of our formatters,
the format time helper that we
have we're gonna pull that in.
So we're gonna say formatTime
from lib/formatters,
that's just gonna take in a time here,
which is just got to be duration.
So once we pass that in,
we should have the proper duration for
a song that gets loaded up.
So if we go check that you can see right
now I do have the proper duration for
this song, it's 4 minutes and 14 seconds.
Apparently even though the database says
three minutes and 58 seconds so this is
why I'm trusting react taller and not all
the fake data that I put in a database.